---
layout: post
title:  "Pre-compiling CSS vs regular CSS"
date:   2017-11-19 14:31:00 +0200
categories: blog
image: "../assets/blog1.PNG"
---

Pre-compiling CSS is a smooth and efficient way of creating the design for your website, especially from a programming point of view. With regular CSS you need to repeat yourself a lot, but with SASS (which I'm using) you can create variables and work with inheritence, which reduces the amount of code needed to get a desired result.

I used variables for having my color palette accessible through all of my SASS file, which makes it less likely that the wrong colors appear. I also used inheritence whenever I felt I was repeating myself too much, or when I realized that two elements were very much like one another. One example of this is when I was using a media query for a max width of 1200 pixels, both my content element and my sidebar element would be almost the same. I decided to create a superclass which had the desired properties, and then made both of the elements inherit that superclass.

When selecting subnodes I used nesting, by placing them within the block of their parent node, instead of creating a new code block below, which saves time and reduces the amount of rows in my code.

### Pros of using a CSS pre-processor:
* You don't need to repeat yourself as much.
* Reducing code.
* Faster development.

### Cons of using a CSS pre-processor:
* More files to keep track of. 
* Changes you make in the resulting CSS file will be overwritten by the precompiler.
* Can be harder to debug due to the SASS file and CSS file not being alike.